README.md, before:

WashtenawVoiceSOQ
=================

##About the project

This project is the result of The Washtenaw Voice’s effort to make the Student Opinion Questionnaires open and available for students.  

Articles related to the subject can be found here:

* http://www.washtenawvoice.com/2014/03/soqs-college-to-release-soqs/
* http://www.washtenawvoice.com/2014/01/soq-the-customers-right/
* http://www.washtenawvoice.com/2014/04/pride-runs-deep-over-voices-soq-fight/
* http://www.washtenawvoice.com/2014/02/letter-to-the-editor-soqs-are-not-the-students-right/
* http://www.washtenawvoice.com/2014/02/letter-to-the-editor-a-modest-proposal/

This is an open-source project coded in PHP with a MySQL database (i.e. the LAMP stack).

Collaboration and participation from any student/faculty/staff is welcomed. The Voice’s goal is to be transparent in the process of presenting the data to the community and we believe we can make this a tool that benefits everyone.

other keywords for this project:
* student opinion survey
* rate my professors
* course evaluation

##About the SOQ’s

There are 3 kinds of SOQ’s with different question sets:
* Skill Building,
* Distance Learning,
* On-site/traditional class

The college further divides the SOQ’s between part-time and full-time staff, however the question sets are not different. Therefore for the purposes of this project we will treat part-time and full-time staff as the same since that does not seem to have any relevancy for the student experience. We can change this by adding an additional field, however, instructors do change from being part-time versus full-time. Any feedback on this is welcome.

The SOQ summary data display’s the total numbers for each answer column. Students rate their instructors on a scale of 1-5. The summary data then provides a mean total of that data along with a mean total for the college followed by a standard deviation.

We are only storing the cummulative mean given in the SOQ, not the detailed count from columns 1-5.  The mean is a float number between 1-5. We are not storing the standard deviation in the database since that can be calculated in our code.

##About the Database
The database is constructed in MySQL.  A visual model is available for further details.
7/11/14 - In the next few days I will work on importing data and uploading a sample set. Goal is to begin coding by the end of the week.CF.

##Feature Set
Initial Release:

1. Create a search page where users can find the information on their instructor.  Have options to drill down into the data by term and class.

2. Display the data in a bar or line graph or chart to make it visually easy to compare results and trends.

3. For graphics, there will be an updated header.  We are waiting on the Voice's design team to finalize the new banner for the first Fall issue.  When that is ready we will copy that banner for a consistent look and feel for the Voice's brand.

Future:
* program an API so that anyone can pull an instructors rating and display it on a web page.
* link to the rate my professor profile if available and show the star rating in comparison to the colleges SOQ. 
* allow instructors to log into the web page and update thier profile info.
* allow students to log on and add additional comments about the instructor and course.
* structure this project to use a framework: code ignighter or laravel

Commit message:

added the project web site url

README.md, after:

WashtenawVoiceSOQ
=================

##About the project

This project is the result of The Washtenaw Voice’s effort to make the Student Opinion Questionnaires open and available for students.  

The official web site for this project is http://soq.washtenawvoice.com/

Articles related to the subject can be found here:

* http://www.washtenawvoice.com/2014/03/soqs-college-to-release-soqs/
* http://www.washtenawvoice.com/2014/01/soq-the-customers-right/
* http://www.washtenawvoice.com/2014/04/pride-runs-deep-over-voices-soq-fight/
* http://www.washtenawvoice.com/2014/02/letter-to-the-editor-soqs-are-not-the-students-right/
* http://www.washtenawvoice.com/2014/02/letter-to-the-editor-a-modest-proposal/

This is an open-source project coded in PHP with a MySQL database (i.e. the LAMP stack).

Collaboration and participation from any student/faculty/staff is welcomed. The Voice’s goal is to be transparent in the process of presenting the data to the community and we believe we can make this a tool that benefits everyone.

other keywords for this project:
* student opinion survey
* rate my professors
* course evaluation

##About the SOQ’s

There are 3 kinds of SOQ’s with different question sets:
* Skill Building,
* Distance Learning,
* On-site/traditional class

The college further divides the SOQ’s between part-time and full-time staff, however the question sets are not different. Therefore for the purposes of this project we will treat part-time and full-time staff as the same since that does not seem to have any relevancy for the student experience. We can change this by adding an additional field, however, instructors do change from being part-time versus full-time. Any feedback on this is welcome.

The SOQ summary data display’s the total numbers for each answer column. Students rate their instructors on a scale of 1-5. The summary data then provides a mean total of that data along with a mean total for the college followed by a standard deviation.

We are only storing the cummulative mean given in the SOQ, not the detailed count from columns 1-5.  The mean is a float number between 1-5. We are not storing the standard deviation in the database since that can be calculated in our code.

##About the Database
The database is constructed in MySQL.  A visual model is available for further details.
7/11/14 - In the next few days I will work on importing data and uploading a sample set. Goal is to begin coding by the end of the week.CF.

##Feature Set
Initial Release:

1. Create a search page where users can find the information on their instructor.  Have options to drill down into the data by term and class. Users should be able to view results when just a class is selected and not an instructor - presenting a summary of all instructors who thaught that course.

2. Display the data in a bar or line graph or chart to make it visually easy to compare results and trends.

3. For graphics, there will be an updated header.  We are waiting on the Voice's design team to finalize the new banner for the first Fall issue.  When that is ready we will copy that banner for a consistent look and feel for the Voice's brand.

Future:
* program an API so that anyone can pull an instructors rating and display it on a web page.
* link to the rate my professor profile if available and show the star rating in comparison to the colleges SOQ. 
* allow instructors to log into the web page and update thier profile info.
* allow students to log on and add additional comments about the instructor and course.
* structure this project to use a framework: code ignighter or laravel
